# 3.3 How Quickfind works - specifics

Some further explanation of how Quickfind works: There are three different kinds of searches going on in parallel when you are entering Quickfind search data:

1. Specific search against **reference number**. This is based upon recognizing a known format of the system’s refence number for work items and then returning results related to Tickets, Cases, Actions which have that reference. You can just type the reference, e.g. ‘17117-T’ and the system will recognize it as a reference. You don’t need to enter a leading short code.
2. **Custom Data Field** searches. As described above. System will know to do this kind of search when you enter a known short code, e.g. ‘p:’. The search will be for a field which contains the specific value you enter. See further note below on Wildcards.
3. **Free text searching** against anything else you enter which doesn’t conform to the first two types of recognized data. The system free text searches the individual words against various system attributes of work items, communication and people, e.g. work item title, email subject and body.

## A. Wildcards for open searching

When searching, the system will add a wildcard to the END of search texts, but not the start.

* For Custom Data Searches specifically, an example of behaviour would be: searching for e.g. “p:John Smi” would find items with the value “John Smith” in a field ‘person’ but searching just for “p:Smith” would NOT find it.

In short: With Custom Data Field searches, we’re searching for the precise value of the field, or the start of the value.

* Free text searches aren’t _quite_ the same as this, since a free text search will try to match against each individual word within a text value to get a match, rather than the value as a whole.
* Wildcards are added to the end of reference number searches also.

### **Running Wildcards while typing**

While you are typing in Quickfind, the system will wildcard search against the very last word, e.g. if you’re free text search typing:

> "John return prio"

The system will wildcard the last word and would also bring back results with e.g. ‘priority’

Once you’ve pressed the space bar the system will conclude you’ve finished typing that word and will search against it without a trailing wildcard.

## B. Other search terms ignored

In order to retain system performance, the following are ignored from searches:

* Words of 1 to 2 characters.
* Words in the system stop list. These are standard common words such as ‘and’ ‘the’, ‘me’ etc., which would otherwise return too many results.

